HSE	Company Procedures should be available and be provided from the HO (especially HSE & quality)	HSE Procedures written over the last months were not matching together and complete HSE Management needed to be developed. Quality better but also no clear "pack" available to introduce to new staff	A lot of time and resources were needed to introduce the Management Systems. Resources were not available to "do their job"	written and developed procedures are not in place should be reviewed and be available for every new project	
HSE	HZI to provide a HSE competence	Customer involvement in Safety decisions and development 	"-HZI did not meet customer expectations regarding culture, safety management system, management procedures
-Customer subsequent process of involvement and pressurising for the better of the project did lead to delays and disruption. (e.g. overt and direct pressure to stop works for incidents, housekeeping, training etc.)
-HZI as organisation at that time could not provide off site support
-HZI did not have teeth to get rapid compliance from Subcontractors"	"-clauses on compensation events excuded Safety related - not clearly defined and subject to 
-Review clauses that could provide more teeth to get -Subcontractor Safety compliance (e.g. withholding payments, fines or penalties. Include the rights to stop works"	
HSE	Collaborative approach, HZI are principle contractor and manage the safety on site, FMFEL approve the approach through approval of the CPP or interfere where they observe something is not safe or according to the CPP	HZI were delayed in the on site works due to FMFEL policy to review and approve all RAMS	Misunderstanding of one another's concept/approach	Develop an agreed method of collaborative HSE management on site with clear lines of responsibility and delineation	There is greater alignment between FMFEL and HZI now on HSE issues which should be captured within any new contract
HSE	Sub-contractors have a HSE competence	Housekeeping and Safety compliance	- Indirect consequences	- Contract needs teeth - e.g. penalty or delay of payments	
HSE	HZI to fully understand and manage project as PC under the UK HSE regulations and additional requirements of a NAECI site.	HZI did not fully understand the requirements of all applicable HSE legislation and NAECI rules leading to a number of gaps in effective management of the site.	HZI did not have the required internal competence levels to interpret the regulatory requirements leading to a heavy reliance on the Client to address gaps.	HZI now have a Technically competent Corporate HSE team who understand the requirements and have actively closed existing gaps and have developed an HSE strategy with supporting processes and procedures to ensure future UK (incl. NAECI) are managed effectively and only qualified and competent individuals will undertake work on site.	HZI have embedded the learnings for their first NAECI project into their operating strategy.
NAECI	NAECI would provide the framework for harmonious Industrial Relations	"a) reduced HZI freedom to utilise experienced partners as subcontractors
b) detrimentally affected the on site productivity
c) In comparison to all other HZI sites produced the worst Industrial Relations of any project
d) produced bad PR"	Client opted for a NAECI site	Non- NAECI	NAECI does not promote a culture which is dedicated to the safe and timely delivery of the project
Commercial (Perhaps All Departments)	HZI and FMFEL had their own offices in their own building.	HZI and FMFEL had their own offices in their own building.	What happened was what was planned to happen, but perhaps a more "joint objective" approach could be beneficial.	Perhaps a more integrated "office share" complex could provide the grounding for a more united common objective approach. Each organisation would have their own offices but "grouped" in the same building by discipline.	Improve communication, better & quicker communication, joint and mutual problem resolution, better understanding of objectives "two heads are better than one." Again a joint "task-force" approach.
Commercial (Perhaps All Departments)	Pre-Contract negotiations, Contract close, Notice to Proceed.	Pre-Contract negotiations, Contract close, Notice to Proceed.	The system operated as planned by HZI suggests that this could be improved.	More of the team, from both sides, on site working together from an earlier stage, to develop better planning, common objectives, value engineering, identifying & dealing with potential delays before they have an effect. If this approach had been used on Ferrybridge 1, the effect of "PC 53" would have been mitigated potentially to nil.	The project is better planned, better coordinated, more likely to be on time and starts with " a bang!" (Can't think of a better expression.)
All	Both Parties employ their own staff	Both Parties employed their own staff	Nothing was done different to what was planned but changes could be made for mutual benefit.	If it can be agreed to have a combined office complex, do we need two receptionists? How far can this be taken, how about a combined Health & Safety Team with "Project Safety" being the common objective? Why can't the QA be a combined operation as can the MECs. The "Electrical Supervision" team could perhaps be combined. How far can this "combined" staffing be introduced?	Cost efficiency, holiday and staff absence cover, quicker resolution, better procedures. The benefits could be immeasurable.
HSE	HZI (as PC) to have in place measures to define required competency levels for all own and contractor staff and assure competency checks in place before they are allowed onto site.	No competency matrix with defined acceptable levels established and communicated within HZI or to contractors. Pre-work verification process inadequate to cope with volume and breadth of on boarding leading to gaps across a wide range of roles and trades. Specifically unqualified contractors undertaking lifting operations, modifying scaffolding and working on electrical systems.	Lack of understanding of requirements of PC to ensure competency under CDM 2007. Lack of effective planning and communication internally to HZI and to contractors of requirements before they mobilised to site and lack of onsite resourcing to deal with issues as they arose..	Defined competency matrix now in place and part of HZI minimum HSE standards. This will be used to communicate both internally and to contractors of expectations on acceptable competence levels. Clear instruction of pre-qualification and verification process to ensure it can be effectively managed at site.	Action taken and learnings included in strategic review of HZI minimum HSE standards documentation.
Site organisation	HZI supervise the works with appropriately qualified and experienced supervisors who are accountable for their work scope & work areas	Some supervisors are not accountable and the sub contractors are poorly managed resulting in poor cost control, poor scheduling, poor house keeping and poor health and safety	HZI do not invest in continuous personnel development/training of the supervisors	Use personnel known to HZI, invest in their continued personnel development and ensure they know the contractual and commercial requirements of their scope	
HSE	HZI to comply with client specific requirements as detailed in Annex 4.	HZI failed to effectively interpret the contents of the Annex 4 provisions and the implications on site operating procedures and resourcing. 	HZI and FMFEL (as PC and Client) failed to establish clear expectations and resolve any areas of ambiguity before mobilisation. 	HZI and FMFEL have now a clear understanding of the contents of current Annex 4 and have put measures in place to address the gaps. The output of these discussions has been a major part of the definition of content of HZI HSE minimum standards. Both have been working together to identify possible improvements for Annex 4 FM2.	Action taken to close existing gaps and learnings built into future iteration.
HSE	An effective and controlled RAMS process in place to manage all works on site.	HZI failed to effectively manage RAMS process. This lead to the Client reviewing and effectively authorising every RAMS document. The process became unwieldy and a source of antagonism between PC, Contractors and Client leading to huge inefficiency and delays.	HZI had no effective RAMS process and supporting procedures in place to manage the level and scope of works. This lead to the contractors submitting sub-standard documentation within no defined timeframe and HZI forwarding to client for review without taking full ownership of contents as would be expected as PC.	After at full strategic review and improvement plan the current RAMS process has improved in quality and timeliness of submissions with consequential improvements in process efficiency. HZI internal processes for managing RAMS for future works have been updated and in future works a more traditional process with the PC taking full ownership for the process quality and efficiency and Client reviewing a percentage of RAMS improving overall effectiveness of site HSE resourcing and Hazard control..	Action already taken to improve current process. HZI now have clear processes and procedures for managing RAMS in all future projects.
HSE	HZI accountable for site infrastructure, facilities and welfare provisions	HZI delegated responsibility to main civil contractor (SISK) for establishment of suitable infrastructure and compound including car-parking and site security system and resourcing and failed to effectively manage contractor resulting in a number of areas of site infrastructure inadequate and no contingency to deal with increased headcount at various stages of the project.	HZI did not see benefit in taking ownership from the outset and trusted contractor was competent to discharge the duties to the required levels.	HZI will take full ownership of all aspects of the site infrastructure and welfare provisions from the earliest planning stages of projects where they are PC.	Strategic change to managing projects as PC
HSE	HZI to ensure a "Clean Build - Safe Build" philosophy was in place from the outset of the project. 	This lead to housekeeping standards falling below acceptable standards increasing the hazard profile of the site.	Lack of ownership by the various contractors and supervisors to ensure a clean as you go policy across the site. This was exacerbated by the structure of supervisor alignment to process rather than geographic areas.	Site HSE staff were allocated geographic regions and this helped to a degree. As well as a formalised housekeeping audit with Client and PC supervisors weekly and an escalation procedure to deal with lack of action after agreed timescale for remedy. Recommendation that Supervisors as well as HSE be allocated a geography as well as a technical/process focus for future projects.	Recommendation
HSE	HZI to apply the hierarchy of controls to working at height risks	There have been a number of issues related to the working at height with a major accident when a person fell from scaffolding. Other issues include dropped objects, no application of tool lanyards or suitable safety netting as controls. 	HZI did not have an effective approach to dealing with working at height risks.	HZI now have a corporate procedure and guidance outlining the minimum requirements for managing working at height risks and will ensure that site significant risk profiles identify the whole spectrum of hazards and have effective control systems in place that are monitored for compliance.	Action already taken to improve current process. HZI now have clear processes and procedures for managing WAH in all future projects.
HSE	HZI to apply the hierarchy of controls to manual handling risks	Manual handling of significant volumes of materials was required (particularly in the admin building and boiler house) as there was no lift or Halimak available.	Manual handling risks were not identified across the duration of the project and the previously installed Halimak was removed.	Ensure that the Manual Handling risks are identified for the whole lifecycle of the project and ensure that appropriate mechanical systems are in place to eliminate them as far as reasonably practicable.	Recommendation
HSE	HZI to apply the hierarchy of controls to lifting operation risks	A procedure to tag lifting equipment to make it visible that is was in service was in place however various audits and checks identified it was not being adhered to.	No formal auditing to the agreed schedule and changing out of out of date equipment was employed. No Lifting/rigging supervisor in place.	A rigging supervisor was employed to get the process into control. HZI updating policy to ensure effective system and monitoring is in place for all lifting equipment and accessories.	Actioned
HSE	HZT to have in place an effective incident investigation and reporting procedure.	HZI delegated responsibility for leading investigations to the various contractors who had the incidents. Leading to a lack of control over quality and effective root cause analysis and failing to meet reasonable reporting timelines. This made it difficult to comply to Clients notification requirements	HZI felt competent contractors would apply the correct procedures of investigation and reporting.	HZI has a revised Incident investigation and reporting procedure and specifies HZI will lead all investigations. Training is being organised to ensure the appropriate levels of internal capability are in place to manage that now and for future projects	Learning point with current work in progress to address the training requirements.
Civils contract/scope	Civils contract / scope should be back to back with HZI main contract to avoid disputes	Various scope of works (tipping chute wear plates, grouting to turbine and process equipment) was not in SISK scope or it is not clearly defined	Contract and scope of works was not back to back with main contract	Ensure that Civil scope is clearly defined and covers all HZI liabilities	
Civil Meetings Coordination	Before construction site was established it was envisaged to hold meetings in Zurich, later at site	Sisk refused to come to Zurich. Virtually all meetings were held in Manchester instead.	No agreement that e.g. a minimum of 10 meetings shall be held in Zurich. In particular in the beginning of the project a lot of expertise is in Zurich and access to the individual TPM is easier.	Agree in future contract to have - say 10 meetings - in Zurich - in particular before site is established.	Adjustment of civil contract.
Civils Design	BD information (load data) is issued to the contractor at agreed key dates to allow design to progress in a timely manner	The design information was in some cases delivered late by HZI and was revised numerous times requiring the civils contractor to revisit the detailed design	HZI process design is not advanced sufficiently during civils phase to provide detailed information. The level of information committed to the civils contractor is too detailed	Design to be done on a more liberal load case which allows for minor changes in position and increase in process loads	
Earthing Study	Earthing design study given to civil contractor. Input with requirements for process were supposed to be given by HZI (e.g. location of earth flags and req. Resistance, earthbars etc.). HZI to check study and to approve.	Contract specs (Ers) contradict HZI's TII for Earthing. Both not compliant with latest BS. On top HZI produce another developed Earthing TII with further deviations. All that causing heavy confusion for civil contractor. Issue of a "hot" site within an existing power plant came on top with poor guidance by HZI.	Earthing Study is currently Civil scope 	Shift package to Electrical Department as expertise is higher	n/a
Turbine Foundation	CC committed to produce the design a shallow foundation without piles for the turbine table (Siemens design) to rest on. Full ground risk with CC.	CC changed their mind and went for piles. Interface for design was hence moved to below ground, Sisk only did the design for the piles, the base mat and the turbine table was done by Siemens. Lengthy discussions were held with regard to contract interfaces and liability (also for settlements) as the contract schematics show contradicting information (once showing a table on columns, base mat and piles and on the other side a shallow foundation. Also the document "Building Data" defines the level 0.00 as the design interface which is not always the case.	Civil contractor was not happy with initial approach and was more comfortable with piles (their decision). Contract specs by HZI are ambiguous and partly contradicting.	Produce a new spec how to deal with turbine foundation design that clarifies responsibilities, liabilities and also procedure clearly.	Improvement of Civil Contract.
Turbine Foundation	CC committed to produce the design a shallow foundation without piles for the turbine table (Siemens design) to rest on. Full ground risk with CC.	CC changed their mind and went for piles. Interface for design was hence moved to below ground, Sisk only did the design for the piles, the base mat and the turbine table was done by Siemens. Lengthy discussions were held with regard to contract interfaces and liability (also for settlements) as the contract schematics show contradicting information (once showing a table on columns, base mat and piles and on the other side a shallow foundation. Also the document "Building Data" defines the level 0.00 as the design interface which is not always the case.	Civil contractor was not happy with initial approach and was more comfortable with piles (their decision). Contract specs by HZI are ambiguous and partly contradicting.	Produce a new spec how to deal with turbine foundation design that clarifies responsibilities, liabilities and also procedure clearly.	Improvement of Civil Contract.
Crane Pavements for Boiler Bundle Pulling	HZI asked Sisk to design hardstandings to accommodate future use of 500 to crawler cranes to pull bundles. Crane and loads were defined, location not 100 % exactly.	Sisk design a heavy slab with piles which they want to get paid extra for (above 100k)	Contract not clear. The drawing shows a crane and it could be meant it during construction on a gravel bed and timber sleepers.	It makes no sense to design a permanent slab "bullet-proof" for a every 5 year event and it can be expected that the client place a gravel mat plus timber sleepers on the location. Hence we would not argue anymore with CC and client - shortly change both contracts and allow for a temp.design only.	Improvement of Civil and Client Contract.
Room Data Sheets	These are part of the contract, however, do not cover all rooms.	Sisk e.g. claim fit out of additional rooms in admin building that were not described.	Contract ER describe works, room data sheets and Contractor's proposal drawings. All these are not 100% back to back with the Client's contract and are not harmonising.	Complete room data sheets reasonably or at least mention all rooms that must be equipped to avoid excessive (architectural + commercial discussions.	Improve Civil Contract.
More dedicated engineering office Civil Engineering	Cost and schedule effective design solutions	Complex and non-effective solutions	Engineering group structure is too big, not specialized team provided	Smaller and dedicated proactive A/E office for civil engineering to be engaged	
Need of Detail Design Coordinator	Design Input from arrangement and from equipment supplier should have been review by SISK's civil designer to ensure they represent value for money, simplicity of construction and long-term satisfaction in operation	Complexity and overdesign in many structures (i.e. Turbine Building)	SISK's Civil Designer used input provided without challenging the equipment supplier	A Detail Design Coordinator from HZI shall be located in SISK designer office to improve design solutions and information flow.	
Need for Site Instructions procedure	It was supposed that all Design inputs would be given in line with the BDP. BD1, BD2 and BD3 information.	Since the Engineering changed further after the BD data has been issued, also minor design adjustments have been issued to the Contractor through the normal design input system.	"Sisk has used any of this submission to issue a event notice.
Sisk is now - after two and a half years - claiming global delay on many of the minor site adjustments."	"It is advised that the Technical Project Manager would address such changes to HZI's Civil Construction Manager who is then issuing a Site Instruction to the Contractor. Such Site Instruction should then be regularly closed our on site with a clear agreements about cost and time impact. 
Furthermore can the Civil Construction Manager, based on the current progress on site, decide if such change should be implemented later without disturbing the site progress."	In addition should the system been used for any instruction the Civil Construction Manger is giving to the Contractor. It will enable HZI to assess the impact at the time of occurrence and settle the issues immediately after occurrence.
Need for Site Technical Office	not planned			"The Site Technical Office shall represent the designer on site and shall:
- implement and close small design issues and Site Instructions mentioned above,
- interact with head design office on all site related issues for fast and adequate resolution"	Design Coordinator in Site Technical office shall come from the Civil Engineering office in charge of the design
poor definition of interface for Civil Turn Over				Clear definition of interface to Civil Turn Over and of M&E plant interface dates (clear demonstration of concurrent work activities)	
Subcontracting strategy from SISK	Sisk planned to have capable and experienced contractors at tender stage	"Given the cost pressure, Sisk has chosen smaller and less experience contractors, e.g. Steel Solution.
Sisk has split the packages in sub-packages impacting on quality and coordination"	First cost pressure	HZI and SISK jointly agree on subcontracting strategy and related experience of potential subcontractors	
Temporary works	The permanent works should be capable of supporting erection loads/lifting in equipment in its incomplete state, resources should be made available in Zurich to check temporary works particularly of the steel structure	It was difficult to prove the structure in its temporary state, as an example, the FGT floor slab could not support the erection equipment (MEWP) required to erect the steelwork and filters, the ash bunker roof could not accept required construction plant loads	HZI design did not take into account how the plant would be built and did not allow for construction plant and equipment	Consideration should be given during design phase how the plant will be built and what construction plant will be required to traverse the floor slabs (MEWPS, cranes, hoists etc.)	
Temporary works	The permanent works should be capable of supporting erection loads/lifting in equipment in its incomplete state, resources should be made available in Zurich to check temporary works particularly of the steel structure	It was difficult to prove the structure in its temporary state, as an example, the FGT floor slab could not support the erection equipment (MEWP) required to erect the steelwork and filters, the ash bunker roof could not accept required construction plant loads	HZI design did not take into account how the plant would be built and did not allow for construction plant and equipment	Consideration should be given during design phase how the plant will be built and what construction plant will be required to traverse the floor slabs (MEWPS, cranes, hoists etc.)	
Layout  	Access is provided	"-Access limitations with delay/cost to install services
"	"-repetitive installation of scaffolding for uncoordinated services (e.g. cabling and general piping going up the side of the staircores)
-Delays to services relying on the building structure for support (including boiler blowdown pipe)
-Extensive scaffolding on the pipe bridge remained in place from the first pipe/cable, until the last inspection/MEC. "	"- optimise services reserves together where possible as per the FGT area, with access from platforms.
Avoid using the Civil structure as a support for process services and equipment.
-Pipe bridge layout to allow for safe installation from platforms rather than from scaffolding  "	
Turbine house structure	Turbine house layout	"The steel plus concrete floor design hindered pipework erection
- The turbine house crane could not be used over the Feed water tank structure and the could not lift any loads off the building roof structure"	-Scaffolding had to be used extensively for piping erection, instead of MEWPS. This was made worse by late changes in the steel design (elevation) which caused most of the pre-manufactured steel supports to be modified. Had to build scaffold (temporary works) structures for lifting to the Feed water tanks	"-Review Turbine house structure from point of view construction and access for mobile platforms.
-T/H crane would probably still benefit erection if available at an early stage"	
Plant concepts (traffic, waste handling etc.)	To develop these concepts during project execution.	Too late issuing of these concepts - redesign due to outcomes of the concepts	Single design have been established on not "coordinated" assumptions.	Establish / issuing "high level" concepts already in offer stage. 	
3D model control	3D model used to assist design but not to use for detailed engineering.	3D model was used by some for engineering measurements at a level of detail causing errors. Also not necessarily clear what a 3D model freeze compares to in the engineering stage (e.g. model takes time by comparison to engineering changes so the model could be 3 months behind actual engineering [not large items but significant none the less] causing problems). 	Project team understanding and discipline.	Make clear guidance for what the 3D model should or should not be used for. Also make a list of modifications and confirm as they are implemented.	
Air Ducts	3D models of air ducts and 2D detail drawings	A couple of support and hangers was not matching	The final check of last edition of steel construction and air ducts was not done (or the check was not exact enough)	Accurate final check of drawings / models 	
Layout planning	Piping of Ammonia Water System is routed between platforms and boiler insulation cladding. No handrail on platforms towards boiler, as platforms are directly next to insulation cladding.	gap between insulation cladding and walkways small, routing of piping under consideration of boiler expansion very difficult	no design/concept for this pipe routing. Gap between platform and boiler may be increased, handrail added	also small bore piping need to be considered during design	
Overall Design	It was defined to use the 3D model to design cable trays, containers installation, bus duct installation.	The 3D Model was incomplete.	Lot of additional work happened 	The EIC design shall be done with a clear and detail engineering including drawings and schematic and cable schedules.	HZI internal coordination to be increased between EIC, process and arrangement planer
Engineering  	During the so called Quality Gate reviews, Design should have been frozen and only be changed with a Design change request and communicated through the Project Team	Design was developed during the complete project, also after the Quality Gate Reviews. Continuously Changes without communication	Internal procedures were not followed. Design could not be finalized at the time of the Gate reviews. 	Stuck to the design, communicate design changes. Design Changes to be approved by PD/ Lead Engineer	
Clash checks 	Layout should have been checked in 3D-Model (Quality Gate Reviews)	High % of clashes, especially CSP ducting and interface between Civil and Process steelwork	"- delayed works and provided substantiation for hindrance, additional works and delay claims. 
-Contributed to situation where works were left 96% complete"	"-Improve systematic review for clashes, design freezes and exchange of information between civil and Process design
-Improve accountability, correction and tracking of clash corrective action. (e.g. Design engineer on site, min turnaround time etc.)"	
Design Simplification	Plant should be designed with erection sequences in mind.	Complex duct designs and equipment locations implemented. This cause difficulty with manufacture and installation. 	Designs / designers not giving enough priority to physical site layouts / not always aware of the impacts of design changes e.g. minimum clearance on ducts that fit in the 3D model then does not account for thermal explanation.	Better integration between erection and design departments. Erection department to be involved at the design stage.	
Erection	General pipe routing according to Sound engineering practise in EN13480 requiring pipe routing adjustment on site.	SSE queried re-routing whether design change has been carried out.	Increased HZI communication.	Competent on-site site staff should be knowledgeable in EN13480 to make appropriate decisions.	
Heat Loads	HZI shall indicate heat loads in Boiler and Turbine House to allow CC to produce a CDM Model and design the HVAC concept. The information is made available at BD 0 quality in the contract.	HZI CSP doubled the heat loads in the boiler area with BD 3 resulting into unnecessary claims for louvers, steel structure etc.	Main values in room list contract stage not reviewed properly. From past experiences and more effort more reliable figures could have been provided at tender stage not resulting into claims.	CSP to review heat loads at tender stage thoroughly with the target to stay in the tolerances with the detail design later on.	Interface with Sales Department.
Spare Part Storage	Allocated from tender and planning stage in GF Admin Building providing 80 qm space only.	All HZI spare parts should have been stored here but a  late stage it was identified that we actually need ca. 400 qm minimum. A new building had to be built as a consequence. Costs, time lost.	Standards were not considered from previous experiences made. This would have easily revealed the problem at tender stage already and it could have been implemented in the contract with FMFEL.	Check and discuss required storage areas already at tender stage.	
Turbine Foundation Design	Turbine Foundation Design by SIEMENS, Civil to execute smoothly from SIEMENS detail engineering	Customer review and large amount of documents required slowed down the process	different levels of expectations, to many parties (incl. Consultants) involved	Meetings regularly during the design process, to do the work only once. Discuss and define the number of documents really needed / reasonable	
Turbine Building Design	Engineering of Process Steel, send to Civil to incorporate in their design, manufacture from there…..	Process Steel and Building Steel connected in over 300 points, various revisions between civil and HZI, at the end lot of mistakes, a lot of changes, loss of time and money, building actually not ready, as turbine left workshop	Time schedule requires much faster input for civil to deliver building in time.	Decouple building from process steel. Develop process steel stand alone structure to have almost NO connections to the building	
Turbine Hall Crane for heaviest piece to be maintained	Turbine Hall Crane always designed for Rotor to be heaviest pieces, also accepted in ambiguity (because contract wording was too weak) 	Customer insisted in generator stator to be able to be lifted out. Way to heavy for already designed crane and building	Very lengthy explanation rounds. For such an industrial type of plant not state of the art 	Either define the stator as piece to be lifted and design building and crane accordingly (incl. costs involved) or define that this is not a maintenance case	
Requirements for Generator	Generator was described in contract by FICHTNER and SSE Engineering Center documents - created an almost nuclear power plant standard for generators	it was build this way , at partly very high cost and time impact 	In the < 100 MW Class, there is a certain industrial standard, which HZI wanted to follow, but experiences form large SSE power plants and FICHTNER Spec made it a high end machine	Define requirements in the very early stages, separate between Consultant "wish full thinking" 500MW generator requirements and mid size industrial applications	
Design / Contract	In contract the turbine hall crane is treated quite similar as the waste and ash cranes (common requirements/chapters in contract for all three cranes)	Several requirements doesn't make sense for the turbine hall crane and could not be fulfilled. (cycle time study, Electrical requirements, Maintenance, etc.)	Waste and Ash crane are individually designed process cranes which can be designed according to special requirements, but maintenance cranes as the turbine hall crane are produced in series according common crane norms	In contract separate chapter for turbine hall crane (maintenance cranes) 	Annex 1B, chapters 3.2.4, 3.3.4, 3.3.5, 3.3.6
Location of Tanks	Waste Water + Process Water tanks allocated under boiler slab to allow short ways in piping.	Tanks were allocated at the most important hand over area to mechanical works (milestone) under the feed hopper level projection zone - on the critical path. Environmental issues led to lengthy discussion about need for double containments. Also pit had be built requiring a piled retaining wall (contig pile wall) and excessive dewatering. This costs precious time in completing the boiler slab.	"Convenient" thinking of process point of view without global view - already at tender stage.	Try to allocate tanks outside/ adjacent to plant. If possible not buried.	Also interface with Sales Department
Insulation concept	Design of lagging concept by the experienced sub-contractor	some key issues of Insulation concept was left up to the Lagging contractor to design (e.g. the roof insulation, which they made up as they went	"-Delay to finalise concept put forward at late stage
-delay to complete and affected by weather. Impact on instrumentation was fully assessed"	-HZI or boiler manufacturer should design the lagging concept in critical areas. (e.g. provide an accessible penthouse structure which would also facilitate future maintenance and removal of superheater bundles)	
Blanking Plate 	Contract requires a Blanking Plate, HZI to engineer - smooth straight engineering	Blanking Plate concept was developed during engineering, Prototype, various concepts rejected, no cost awareness, not the best solution chosen, too late ready for arrangement planning	Too many discussions about possible solutions. First solution would have been the best. Was cancelled because of costs. At the end it costed way more….	Define a possible solution already during tender phase. Look for best solution, look for economic optimized solution	
Support Structure ACC Duct	Was intended as steel, became than concrete	concrete is not "forgiving" changes, embedded parts to be defined very early, more expensive	embedded parts came late, because piping engineering could not keep the pace for building data to be submitted	Check properly if steel would have done the job and decide for steel if there are no real good reasons for concrete	
Ash Bunker	Civil works execution according to schedule	Location and design of ash bunker in the middle of the Boiler house had impact on the schedule and cost	"-Slow and higher risk Civil structure. Completion was delayed and affected both steel and Boiler schedules                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -Affected the construction as it was not fully usable as a platform due to concreate roof design (e.g. loading for MEWPS
- Ash holding capacity limited due to limited depth of the bunker floor. Roof and crane rails may be comparatively higher than needed"	"-Take the Ash bunker outside the boiler envelope if the site layout allows. Ash to the Bunker via conveyor belt
- could benefit from conveyors discharging into the bunker at higher position (more live bunker capacity)"	
Waste Bunker feed hopper deck	Civil works execution according to schedule	The type of Hopper deck construction with false work and concrete, which can be only implemented at a late stage of Waste Bunker construction (after slip forming). Program delay was accommodated by costly temporary works solution instead of props	"-Delays the access to Boiler house. 
-concurrent civil works preventing installation of Grate structure
-Slab of the Boiler house cannot be completed"	-Consider structural steel solution or alternative arrangement	
EIC Civil work	All BMS system including HVAC, Fire detection, Fire fitting, lighting, tipping Hall…	Fire fitting cables 4 time more expensive, cabling to the fire fitting cabinet not design according the size of  the project, fire alarm system to switchgear installed with lot of delay, building services to switchgear still in discussion.	Completion with lot of delay, missing understanding of all interfaces. Design not finalised	Electrical systems to be managed by  EIC directly, not through the Civil company	On going for future EPC project New definition of scope between Civil and HZI
Fire rating of 120 minutes in turbine hall	HZI to allow standard (fire proof paint)	Civil partner came up with "foam type protection layer" This layer does not allow for pipe clamping and steel to steel structure connections, so had to be removed partly	Loss in time to remove foam fire protection layer. Delayed Piping installation, H+S issue. Loss in money to reapplicate the protection afterwards. 	Check if 120min class is really applicable in stand alone turbine building. What can burn here ? Mainly turbine oil in very limited areas with separate sprinkler system. Could local increased fire fighting measure reduce the rating ? If not, find a much better technology , never use foam layer again.	
Package units design issues	The suppliers are not using the EIC limits of scope.	Consequently there are lot additional works. Actually every package unit is an additional work for the E-Package.	Package unit not clear designed and discussed between TPM's and suppliers 	Interfaces to be clearly defined and engineered in detail	on going process to reduce the number of package units
MCC Control voltage	Not clearly specified in TII 16.01. 	Incorrect control voltage. Changes were required. Costs and delay	Contract wording not clarified with client	Get written approval from client up front for control voltages. Separate DCS and MCC and HV control voltages in TII 16.01	TII 16.01 to be revised
HV Cable interface with Substation	Install and terminate cable. 	 Delay of cable termination  until backfill and scaffolding finished. Substation delay	Manholes and sleeves not built	Concrete cable entry into substation. Control cable sleeves and manholes specified earlier in project	All this items have to be engineered in detail based on  our Standards Substation drawings that we have now
Environmental Permit CEMS	CEMS deinstalled during refractory drying / boiler blow out	CEMS has to be installed and fully in operation. Risk that CEMS probes are getting damaged due to not normal operation	Issue not sufficiently be considered during tender and execution phase	Contractor to propose a way forward early in the project to be discussed and agreed with the client and EA	
Contract	All items to be designed and in accordance with the contract.	Teams often have an attitude "we did it this way before" for engineering and "we need client approval" for other items. This is not always in line with the contract meaning we are over generous to the client.	-	More contract training both by our internal teams and NEC or similar.	
engineering data base update	Copy templates are used for the creation of PIDs, the creation of functional design specifications and partially for standardised electrical data	Several corrections in PIDs, FDS and electrical data had to be conducted in a relatively late stage of the project	This project has been the 4th project with an updated engineering base with more functionalities. The update of the templates according the feedback of the first three projects has been neglected	More manpower has to be put into the update of copy templates.	The update of copy templates has already been intensified during the last few month.
Design Changes and NCRs	NCR & design change management to be managed in PIRS and following HZI procedure.	Design change management was virtually zero and NCR management was also poor (with the exception of client NCRs). 	Limited belief in the value of design change requests with in HZI teams (suggest this is a cultural problem). NCR management was a combination of filing and responsibilities.	Ardently enforce design change requests. 	
document handling	The customer defined the types of documents for each technical system HZI had to provide for F MFEL's review / comment.	"1. A huge workload for both sides (HZI and F MFEL) to review documents and comment, to response the comments and response the responses… 
2. A lot of documents could not be provided because they are not applicable respectively simply do not exist. Or the information in one document is already contained in another one."	"Lack of consultation in the tendering stage.
Too many documents have been required to review. To this day more than 3300 technical documents (many of them in more than one revision) have been provided to F MFEL. All in all more than 5500 comment sheets (DRDs and DRCS) have been created."	"Better agreement at a very early stage of the project which documents are really worth reviewing.
Instead of singular comment sheets (DRD; DRCS) it may be appropriate to have one comment sheet for all process relevant technical systems / electrical / civil ...
"	
document handling	HZI should inform F MFEL about future document provision via a  "Document Submission Schedule". That meant a timely fixation of the upcoming provision of documents month per month.	Great efforts were required to schedule the documents. As HZI is also dependent from sub suppliers to receive documents in time and in a good quality the scheduling was finally imprecise and unsatisfactory.	see comment before	The date of submission should be up to the contractor, eventually with some major milestone dates but not with singular document scheduling.	
Involvement in "Engineering Center" 	HZI expected a standard customer project team to deal with	Actually for several topics, engineering centre experts got involved and commented on issues, because they feel it was their good right to give their expertise. This happened non respecting project specific items, like contract, budget, time to come to a conclusion, type of documents required	No real project team on customer site, experts could not see the full picture and project requirements	Implement project specific team (experts in the background)	
Number of Documents 	Document Matrix leaded to a large number of documents. 	A lot of documents required were unreasonable , (e.g. wiring diagram for a tank), customer himself had not enough manpower to review documents	customer was not used to engineering documents standard from HZI , and created a list, which was almost operating manual level to ensure he gets "enough"	define really needed engineering documents customer wants to review e.g., design reports, and wait for details for final documentation. Customer docs during engineering is also very confusing for suppliers	
Design Review	FMFEL would check to confirm that HZI design / procurement complied with the requirements of the specification and provide feedback	"FMFEL slowed down the design/procurement works due;
a) taking a long time to provide feedback,
b) demanding information before it was available
c) asking lots of questions which reflected the authors limited knowledge of the process,
d) In some instances HZI were prevented from progressing the works until design was approved"	"a) Many resources with FMFEL having involvement into design review (Engineering Centre)
b) Not understanding the requirements to deliver the major procurement lots
c) self explanatory
d) contract provision"	The parties need to discuss how the design review is managed and this agreed process included into the contract - HZI should not be prevented from progressing the works unless these is a clear and unequivocal and serious breach (exceptional circumstance)	
Planning conditions	FMFEL would check that HZI prepared submission to planning authorities would not commit FMFEL to an unforeseen burden in the future	"FMFEL slowed down the approval process through;
a) Using this mechanism to influence the design not related to planning issues
b) providing feedback and requiring resubmission for nurgatory grammatical issues
"	Significant interference from FMFEL without responsibility for the delay caused	FMFEL take on responsibility for preparing the submissions and HZI provide input/support or there is joint responsibility	If a party wishes to have an involvement which can delay resolution of the issue then it is reasonable he should accept some of the consequences
Quality Assurance	Collaborative approach, HZI are the EPC Contractor and manage the QA/QC aspects of the project, FMFEL approve the approach through approval of the Quality Plan and own attendance at inspections/witness points. 	There was confusion and delay resulting from the level of involvement by FMFEL	Misunderstanding of one another's concept/approach	Develop an agreed method of collaborative QA/QC management on the project with clear lines of obligations, responsibility and delineation	There is greater alignment between FMFEL and HZI now on QA issues which should be captured within any new contract
Commercial (Perhaps All Departments)	Design Approval, RAMS review, MECs, Joint Inspections all within certain timescales.	Some delays to Design Approval, RAMS review, MECs, Joint Inspections.	Late submission, inefficiencies of procedures, late instigation etc., all of which, although individually mostly of minor consequence, collectively became quite major.	Implementation of 5 & 7 above would improve communication, reduce delay, create quicker procedures for example amending RAMS, agreeing design etc.	Save time, save money, improve efficiency, develop mutual understanding of urgency. Quicker and better comprehension and hence resolution of problems.
Document exchange	Extensive exchange and checking of documents by FMFEL	Enormous number of e-mails between HZI and FMFEL. Difficulties to keep overview of answers, releases, etc.	Different comments from different parties of FMFEL (Design team SSE, WTE) and for most documents several revisions necessary -> much more exchange necessary than expected	Installation of a document exchange platform so that both parties have ongoing access to the latest released documents, comments and answers	
Customer attendance at workshop inspections	A standard number of customer attendance was allowed for	Customer took the chance to "wish" for attendance while commenting ITP`s. 	Number of customer visits was very high, although some inspection points took only 15minutes. Always an HZI representative to join. Additional cost from sub suppliers invoiced.	Agree at a reasonable number of visits from experience of FB1. 	
Site organisation	HZI as main contractor shall lead the site	contractual action by HZI almost never on time	late response by Purchasing/Commercial	Site management and supervisors shall be trained to manage their contractor in all aspects	
Construction engineering	Construction activities shall be executed based on erection concepts and erection instructions	some works were just executed by the principle "try & error", for example installation of FGT equipment, grate, ducts etc.	insufficient efforts during erection engineering phase by HZI and contractors	HZI and contractors must plan the construction works since the early stage of the project	
Site organisation	HZI as main contractor shall lead the site	Due to various reasons (delays, contractual issues, etc.) got HZI in a position of continuous reacting and were barely able to act and direct	failure to maintain clear contractual position with contractors. Several contractors are in opinion that time is "at large"	HZI has to maintain clear contractual positions to contractors	
Project organisation	HZI shall manage subcontractors sovereign	uncoordinated communication and agreements with subcontractors via various channels, e.g. with RIS, BSL, AVL, Natus	lead in contractor management not clear	Strategy towards contractors must be defined under the lead of the project manager and followed by all. Clear ways of communicated to be agreed and followed	
Subcontractor Management	Basic engineering done by HZI passed on to subcontractors who manage and build the items. All risk with subcontractors.	Items passed on to subcontractors and then next contact made when and item was due (this is an exaggeration but not that far away). Contractors then came back with problems when they were already late - often with our data - meaning enforcing penalties and claims was hard and the project suffered delays. 	Our understanding of our subcontractors is not correct. They are not capable / we do not provide the correct information for them to just be left to their own devices.	MUCH more active subcontractor management.	
Construction engineering	all drawings should be available and easily accessible to site team	not all drawings in the system; difficult to find certain drawings	filed drawings incomplete	document directory, incl. The filing location, shall be prepared 	
PIRS	Tracking TQs, DRDs, DRCs and project documents to happen semi/automatically in PIRS. Universal use for the project including Zurich & site. No hard copy site documentation. 	TQs tracked ok, DRDs, DRCs and project documentation unsuccessful causing extensive administration. At one point the project had 4.5 document controllers. The action items became out of control and of no value. The site access to PIRS is still slow discouraging usage and consuming time. Quality control of information going into PIRS is also poor. Over all effect is expensive and means we have to rely on the client to tell us the status of most of our engineering. Including what they see as a priority (we can not easily tell this). Revision control is still a headache (e.g. SIL list).	Not enough understanding at the beginning of the project of likely volumes of documentation or how best to track the items. Also limited training on how the project used the tool. Handling of NCRs and similar almost entirely useless.	More time invested at the start to get the process correct. Removal of fields that the project does not need. Simpler instructions for the use of PIRS (not 40 page handbook). Better use of automated reporting so that people get the befit of filing correctly. Use computerised approval loops (currently anyone can send documents to the client - this has caused headaches). Better control and sign off for site documentation. Locate a PIRS server on site to increase speed on site.	
Construction engineering	Correct installation of equipment shall be confirmed by measurement records	in certain scopes was it not even know what have to be measured; erection mistakes were discovered too late	absence of measurement record templates	design department must define together with construction what need to be checked and templates shall be prepared by HZI	
Construction engineering	Execution Drawings should be available	There were no erection drawings available for equipment which was ordered without erection. Mainly the fabrication drawings and the 3-D Model	Erection Drawings could not be provided for Erection Contractors. Scope not clear	Provide erection drawings 	
Construction engineering	Complete Site infrastructure / Welfare Area & Parking Place to small in general	Much more supervision was necessary, more offices, more welfare area, peak of manpower almost double than expected	Sequence could not kept, more contractors coming to site, but no one was finishing	get confirmed manpower levels during Tender Stage, run monthly / weekly manpower returns on site	
Services Manager	HZI site team to manage SIS who provided most site services (e.g. cabins, cleaners, security, signs, lighting, etc…)	Extensive time consumed by managing SISK and arguing over minor costs (e.g. replace lights, put signs up …). All parts that did not fall under SISK contract managed by the site commercial team (Phil King) meaning very expensive and experienced asset ends up buying fridges, toasters, signs etc.	Not expected that SISK would be so resistant. Not a full understanding of risks / requirements. 	Take the majority, if not all, of these type of services out of the civil contractor's scope and have a dedicated HZI site services manager. 	
Site Set Up/Construction	HZI to supply suitable office/welfare accommodation for the whole of the site operatives and staff	This work was sub contracted to the civils contractor, HZI did not suitably plan and supervise the site set up, the facilities were not sufficient for the actual number of staff and operatives. HZI had to add to the facilities on an adhoc basis costing additional time, money and effort	The number of operatives and staff was underestimated by HZI and the information given to the civils sub contractor was incorrect. HZI did not get best use from the available space and had insufficient car parking from the outset	Pre planning prior to commencing works on site, look at historical data on other sites to evaluate what is likely to be required	
Construction Concepts	HZI and selected sub-contractors to provide a detailed erection concept/sequence	"Boiler house minor lifts were done with  main construction cranes. 
Productivity during Installation phase could be improved. (12 floor levels by stairs to 41m)  "	"- No lifting well provided in the Boiler house
- Lift (Elevator) in Starcore 1 and 3 planned for late completion"	"- Provide lifting well, crawl beams or hoist and landing station at floor levels
- Earlier commissioning of Lifts for Construction use, with HZI operator"	
Site Establishment and Logistics	Site infrastructure to be supplied by Civil contractor	Site related services not performed well by Civil Contractor. Cost impact. (e.g. Security, welfare, Cleaning Services) 	"- Spec not detailed re expected performance delivery
- no incentive to perform "	"- HZI to take on selected Site service provisions
- need a detailed HZI ""site spec""
- HZI to provide branded Site signage
- leave specific with Civils (site drainage, roads, footpaths, fencing and barriers etc. Lighting?) - discuss"	
Site Organisation	Site procedures in place prior to start of site activities	Site Organisation did not make provision for functions required from CDM or legal point of view	"- Customer expectations
- Compliance
- Not included in original organisation or procedures"	"- Include at specific timing and depending on Contract circumstances - Temporary Works Coordinator, Crane Coordinator, RAMS review, Welding Inspection, Night shift cover, MEC coordinator/Docs etc.
- Updated construction procedures (e.g. Temporary Works and management of Lifting operations)"	
Site Establishment and Logistics	Experienced, HSE aware sub-contractor handle the HSE requirements	Housekeeping and management of scrap material could be improved	- contract relied on each contractor managing own housekeeping. Worked only partial and affected by poor access to the boiler house to remove scrap materials	- Provide on cost recoverable basis partial service from HZI, incl rental of skips, removal by crane or hoist	
Use of site information	All persons on site logged, inducted and checked against their training records, competency and company. Easy to track people who have left the project and remove access to site.	Turnstiles installed by the civil contractor. Access the data was difficult and not useful for site statistics. Induction data kept in a spreadsheet with paper filed copies of records. Training plans / records continually out of date and not easy to use to verify state of persons on the project. 	Large requirement for manual input, checking and management. This generated an entire extra person's work for a while.	Install an integrated gate log and 'training database' system. Allows induction data to be stored electronically, as inductions expire re-induction can be triggered by site entry. Contractor, man hours can be easily calculated and when people leave the project their IDs can be deactivated.	
Site Infrastructure	Paramedic to be covered by hospital and first aiders. All site cleaning to be undertaken by own contractors.	Hospital cover and site cleaning was not enough. Resulted in getting in a paramedic and cleaning teams.	-	Include clean my site & paramedic into site costs from day one when contractors get charges per man on site. 	
Site organisation	to run the project and the site with experienced people	Majority of the Project Team was not working on a UK Project, and the Majority of the Site Staff was not working for HZI	Not a lot of experience 	Run the project & site with more experienced people. Increase the employed Site Staff to reduce amount of Freelancers	
Site organisation	"One scaffolding contractor
Experienced scaffolding coordinator"	Scaffolding coordination for Boiler Erection/Insulation can be improved. Scaffolding delay after Pressure test to commence Insulation	"- Two contractors used for Scaffolding
- Design of scaffolding for insulation different requirements"	"- use single contractor 
- Install Boiler scaffolding with Insulation in mind"	
E-Containers	Sisk were only to provide Civil Works i.e. foundations. All BS inside the E-containers are supplied by HZI (Natus-HZI).	The services inside the containers (HVAC, lights etc.) needed power supplies HZI envisaged to ask Sisk to do. Reason was to separate power consumption for BS from Process MCC panels. Also the door access system and fire fighting system needs to be connected to the overall system by Sisk. These interfaces have not been described well in the contract.	Contract scope not well-described. 	In future all power supplies by HZI not by civil as  the power comes eventually anyway from HZI! Access control, fire fighting and all signalling cables MUST be done by Civil as the Civil Contractor is the owner of the FF, AC shorly BS Centrals in the CCR (all provided on the assumption that not the whole package will be done by HZI in the future which is currently under internal discussion within HZI!)	Improvement of Civil Contract.
Grouting	Contract states all grouting of steel and equipment by CC	CC asks for extra payments for special equipment such as turbine, ID fans whose grouting arrangements could not fairly and reasonably be understood at tender stage. HZI instructed 3rd party contractor for special grout jobs and is still trying to recover costs.	Contract not clearly defined.	Define fixed amounts of steel columns and equipment to be grouted or indicate capped grout volume. Anything over and above resp. below will be paid/ deducted again. 	Improve Civil Contract.
E-Schematics	Various E-schematics show the battery limits between CC and HZI.	Schematics are partly contradicting and it is not always clear who is responsible for certain cables and glanding. Excessive costs for cables between LV DB panels were then asked by Sisk as an example.	E-Schematics not updated and partly contradicting.	Review and update all schematics.	Improve Civil Contract.
Raised floors 	Not in CC for HZI's E-Rooms  inside Admin Building	CC received VO.	Not in contract.	Put back in CC from start as it makes no sense HZI do the flooring.	Change CC.
Air Ducts	Planning of instrument nozzle and manhole	Insufficient nozzles and manholes	No final internal review	Internal review has to be done	
Feed hopper cover metal plates	Complete delivery with the feed hopper itself	Cover plates were lost during transport or on site	No serious incoming inspection / storage on site	Provide detailed delivery list, improve income inspection (report with pictures) and handling of storage on site 	
Grate erection	Pre-erection of grate elements together with the riddling hoppers on the floor, lift-in as a unit	Collision with the pillars of the steel structure during lift-in => remove of pillars was required	Concept of pre-erection was new and not simulated during the engineering => wrong change in the erection sequence	Do it as in the past => lift-in the riddling hoppers, than lift-in the grate elements and finally connect them together	
Support of bottom ash extractor	No support or suspension at the hood of the extractor planned; bottom ash chute welded with the grate steel structure 	Welding not permitted (galvanised steel structure). Tilting of the Chute with the extractor. Additional support between extractor and vibration conveyer required	Mistake in the load- / fixation concept	Suspension between the hood of extractor and the steel structure platform => have to be planned during engineering	
Tightness of bottom ash extractor	New sealing used for all wear plates in the bottom ash extractor	Sealing are not tight (missing experience)	Exchange of all sealing's required	Use the proven standard (no new solution without a long-life operation test)	
Eco support	Eco support was attached to Economiser 3	Erection was a little bit complicate and needed more time	It was a result of the boiler expansion concept.	Eco support attached to the Economiser 1 is a better solution and the Economiser erection is easier and faster.	
Crawler crane	Working area for crawler crane has to be in a good condition for the applicable weights	Working area needed to repair after moving of crawler crane	Working area was not sufficient for the applicable weights	Working area for crawler cranes need to be in good condition for the applicable weights or covered with metal sheets	
Laydown area	Enough laydown area for all supplier	Not enough area for boiler preerection	Delay by steel structure erection	Better organisation of laydown area	
Access certificates	To use access certificate for work in different area	Access certificates were shared between different companies	allowed to work in the same area at the same time	Better organisation of daily access certificates, to assign priorities	
NAECI rules, riggers	DD uses English riggers for heavy lifting and piping installation	Very slow progress with riggers, no chance to control and Friday afternoon no riggers available.	Other work attitude	Use Croatian riggers with all necessary certificates	
NAECI rules, scaffolding	DD uses English scaffolder	Reaction time for new scaffolding or minor changing is very long	Other work attitude	Make a very strict contract with scaffolder	
NAECI rules supervision	NAECI requires supervisor on each 10 workers and usually supervisors are persons who speaks English	NAECI supervisor – it is simply not fit in to the erection conceptual organization of work	During boiler erection there is a lot small groups (three or four workers) on different places and NAECI supervisors do not have a knowledge about boiler erection	Normally would be that DD has certain amounts of workers that speaks English, not necessarily to be supervisors	
Site organisation	DD is responsible for the site organisation and has got enough manpower	The job was not good organised	At the beginning not enough people 	HZI fix with boiler supplier the site rules during bidding face	
Site organisation	DD organised the site with several sub suppliers	Delay by DD	The sub supplier performance was not good	DD executes erection with own personal	
Commissioning	Systems were grouped in large groups making inspections easier	Systems were too complex	Inspections could not be completed	Break systems down into logical system groups, easier for inspections	
Erection	NDT requirement above EN 13480 requirements	Confusion on supplier and HZI side	More time spent on HZI side to document gaps	Use NDT requirement only to EN 13480	
Supervision steel structure	The supervisor for steel structure had also other systems under his responsibility	It was not possible to perform as it should be. Therefore HZI send the steel structure system engineer on site for supervision.	Lack of time, because of too much system responsibility	There will be a site supervisor only for the steel structure	
Air Ducts	Internal change of system engineer during project handling	Lose of information	Handover was not sufficient	Accurate handover must be done	
Hydraulic Unit	The routing of the hydraulic piping from the hydraulic unit to the valve blocks and cylinders are scheduled during erection on site	The hydraulic piping were installed according to the situation on site	The installation of the hydraulic piping was scheduled too early, therefore different collisions with other piping or components were happen	The hydraulic piping should be drawn in the design (3D model) so that collisions can be identified early	
Hydraulic Unit	Bottom ash extractor cylinder installation (hydraulic connections and end positions of sensors)	The sensors of the bottom ash cylinder are not demountable as drawn	During the construction of the bottom ash extractor this has not been noticed.	Hydraulic connections and sensors on the assembly drawing has to be drawn in the correct position	
Project organisation	complete scope shall be subcontracted to contractors	several scopes where not contracted and had to be contracted on site	several scopes not contracted	contracting to be checked based on AIC scope	
Project organisation	all drawings should be available and easily accessible to contractors	some contractors not in possession of documentation	document distribution procedure unclear	implement document control system and assure complete documentation is provide to the contractor prior to mobilization	
QA	MEC Procedure as per HZI Procedure	Procedure was not clear and not fully understood, so site developed an "own" MEC procedure based on the documents	MEC dates in the MEC schedule were taken out of the Purchase orders. Due to the change in the schedule, these dates were not amended. The sequence was not given anywhere else, until Commissioning gave a clear sequence. Construction have not had the knowledge of the Commissioning needs.	A clearly MEC Process driven by Commissioning supported by Marked Up P&ID's. The sequence and needs can be defined very early and handed over to construction. 	
Construction Concepts	HZI and selected sub-contractors to provide an erection concept	Contractors change erection concept, with disruption/delay. (e.g. WSC limited use of MEWPS possible, Ash bunker roof limited loading for MEWPS, DD erection concept for ECOs failed) 	"- Poor planning
- Construction concept not detailed. Temporary Works not considered"	"- Review Detailed Erection concept at tender stage
- Include Temporary Works considerations"	
Construction Concepts	Execute all possible work at the manufacturing shop or at ground level	Pre-insulation did not produce the expected benefits (e.g. FGT Filters)	"- Poor manufacturing control and storage at the works. Not painted under insulation
- Preservation/protection on site not successful
- Damage by rigging during lifting/turning "	"- Review. Would require detailed protection measures from works and on site, plus pre-determined lifting arrangements
- Any repairs to be done at the time of erection"	
NAECI issues	HZI and sub-contractors made provisions to work under "NAECI"	Cost and possible schedule implications not factored into the original schedule	"-Lack of experience.
-SPA did not cover all issues and several contracts had to be adjusted at HZI cost (e.g. Civil steelwork and Electrical works had to be brought in scope)
-certain groups productivity significantly affected (e.g. Insulation)
-Although considered good for a project of this level, work stoppages did have impact 
Welfare facilities inadequate due to due to delays and increased manpower (approx. double the original est peak manpower)"	"-early review of SPA against UK actual situation
- For NAECI site additional criteria are valid for planning of Welfare facilities"	
e-containers	Construction phase plan	-excellent concept, but some unfortunately placed in the location of Tower cranes	Caused delay and pressure when cranes demob was delayed	-review location	
Project Management	Standard project team established	"Unusual high amount of documents to handle.
Strict process of distribution, review, comments and finally acceptance hadn't been in place."	First project with this high amount of documents and strict handling with them. HZI 	Establish project teams and procedures related to expected customer / consultant extra effort	
Interface between GCB & STG	Engineered before equipment on site	Engineered after equipment installation	Inexperienced TPM(s)	Manage the process earlier in project	All this items have to be engineered in detail based on  our Standards Substation drawings that we have now
Interface between HV and MV	Engineered before equipment on site	Engineered after equipment installation	Inexperienced TPM(s)	Manage the process earlier in project	All this items have to be engineered in detail based on  our Standards Substation drawings that we have now
HV  interface to DCS	Engineered before equipment on site	Engineered after equipment installation	Inexperienced TPM(s)	Manage the process earlier in project	All this items have to be engineered in detail based on  our Standards Substation drawings that we have now
Cable route from plant to setup transformer	Sleeves and manholes from 11kV switchboard to transformer	Sleeves in earlier drawing removed from subsequent versions of drawing	TPM too busy	TPM to have an HV checklist and check revisions of layout drawings	All this items have to be engineered in detail based on  our Standards Substation drawings that we have now
HV Switchgear plinths	Foundations based on information from contractor	Information provided after erection	TPM and Contractor inexperienced	Manage the process earlier in project	All this items have to be engineered in detail based on  our Standards Substation drawings that we have now
Consumer changes	No changes after ED3	Changes after ED3	Short project delivery period	Delay Package 3 ordering as long as possible	EIC take over the responsibility after ED2 freeze to increase the quality of consumers, Instrumentation and I/O's lists
Zurich / site division of responsibilities.	Clear division of responsibilities between site and Zurich.	Responsibilities unclear leading to many items falling into the space in-between with both sides blaming the other. 	Lack of clear definition as well as structural changes to the team during the project.	Clearly define limits of responsibility and check (via design change request items, document management - site docs - and NCRs) where gaps are appearing.	
Transport of feed hopper	Delivery the hopper in 3 parts (huge dimensions) to reduce erection costs. Transport of feed hopper by ship and lorry	Reloading (two times), condition of delivery not according specification => turning before lift-in required, missing additional lifting eyes	High transport costs, uncertainness of delivery time by ship	Delivery of transportable units by lorry, pre-erection on site (there is more than enough time to do that)	
Transport of feed hopper	Delivery the hopper in 3 parts (huge dimensions) to reduce erection costs. Transport of feed hopper by ship and lorry	Reloading (two times), condition of delivery not according specification => turning before lift-in required, missing additional lifting eyes	High transport costs, uncertainness of delivery time by ship	Delivery of transportable units by lorry, pre-erection on site (there is more than enough time to do that)	
NAECI site	Non NAECI is HZI preferred setup	Delays, inefficiencies, strikes, additional costs	Challenging programmes and NAECI site is hardly achievable	Non NAECI site or extended schedule	
RDD	Reviewable Design Data to be brought in line with HZI standard RDD with respect to amount of documents and structure	Document amount and structure did never fit with the amount and structure of HZI organisation	Different approaches from consultant and contractor	Use HZI standard RDD	
Approval procedure	Get the approvals in time HZI allows to stick on schedule with approved documents	In order to meet the schedule HZI had to progress without approvals. Contact on customer side was always an "organisation", never a person with a name.	Approvals to late, withheld on formality reasons or HZI input to late and/or not accurate enough. Different company philosophies are not understood by the parties. High level meetings only. No meetings on an engineering level.	Regular meetings face-to-face, involving engineers from involved parties, helps to sort out misunderstandings.	
Client's comments	Client comments to all sorts of documents had to be answered by HZI (drawings, philosophies, reports, calculations etc.). Client imposed a "DRD" system on HZI that had the target to comment each and every document individually by one excel file that was supposed to be sent to HZI.	HZI decided to produce one Action Item for each DRD in PIRS and appoint it to the responsible TPM. 1000s of AI, emails and reminders had to be administered that resulted in a lot of unnecessary effort without any proper overview.	DRD system chosen by client.  HZI could have suggested alternative. On top HZI complicated the internal process of closing design issues requiring excessive time on PIRS doc control that can be spent better.	Convince the client e.g. to produce one master spread sheet with comments with all documents in it (split up in disciplines Civil, M+E) that will be sent in regular intervals to HZI. Regular review with the client at site to follow. One column for subcontractor comment/ one column for HZI comment. HZI would review subcontractor column before returning list to client.	
Schedule	Contract programme for Civil was established and signed off first -all based on HZI's experience when their equipment will usually be procured, delivered and installed.	Civil contract programme agreed and broken down on level 3 - approved programme. All of a sudden HZI procure parts of their plants significantly later (e.g. waste crane, turbine) resulting in delay in submission of BD 3 data (based on procured materials). HZI were then exposed to various claims of disruption and add. costs.	Procurement chain did not take care of initially agreed dead lines and for reasons of better negotiation results extended tender periods were accepted without considering counter costs from civil contractor.	Agree on realistic HZI dates that will be implemented in the civil and overall time schedule. No deviation permitted which can be achieved by thorough monitoring. Keep to frozen design and deadlines.	HZI were struggling with their own time schedule at the time  hence no real focus on civil.
Operational Concept of Plant	Plant concept has to be available at hand over from sales to project in a reasonable way. E.g. it must be clear how the req.waste through-put can be achieved in conjunction with the max. traffic and vehicle requirements. Vehicle amount and type eventually also impact on arrangement and amount of tipping chutes - effectively on the whole lay-out.	15 chutes were sold to the client which were not accessible by lorries as they could not manoeuvre sufficiently. No tracking study done before contract. Civil contractor finds out that HZI lay-out is not feasible. As a result the chutes were reduced and the Tipping Hall extended. This impacted on the waste bunker + Boiler civil construction as well. HZI lost precious time on the civil input data that could have spent elsewhere on engineering.	Client insisted on 15 chutes and HZI failed in making plausible this is not feasible. With a simple tracking study this issues could have been avoided.	Produce tracking study at sales stage (minor costs). Have all basic operational procedures in place in a robust status (e.g. Waste Operational Concept, Maintenance Concepts, Traffic Concept)	Interface with Sales Department.
NAECI	"Quasi-Predictable situation In terms of cost by considering the requirements of the blue book (rates, etc.)
Limited amount off ""in-scope"" works
Reasonable amount of unexpected issues"	"List of ""in scope"" works in SPA longer than expected
During execution steel works as well as electrical works of the civil scope turned to ""in scope""
Several issues regarding competencies
Very limited opportunity to exchange contractors (substitution) with poor productivity
Several IR issues
All of the above conducted to unexpected delays and compensation costs"	No previous own experience	"No contractual obligation for NAECI
Allow for significant TRA and cost contingencies"	
"Engineering
Unusual contractual requirements regarding documentation / approval"	HZI consider internally and pass on requirements to subcontractors. Expectation is compliance with contract	"Unexpected amount of rejections and comments received from FMFEL leading to unusual level of efforts to rectify.
To date still large amount of open comments and missing documents according to Annex2
Internal hours used and still to be used far away from initial prediction
Unusual level of effort to monitor the process (internal follow up / reminder)"	"Limited understanding and preparedness of HZI team to adhere to the rules and provide information on time.
Amount of open issue increase constantly up to loss of overview
"	"Define HZI Standard (RDDE) and include in contract
Enforce design management rules (internal organisation, training, supervision, control)"	
Contract schedule	The civils schedule should have been fully integrated into the HZI overall schedule and monitored closely and updated regularly. The accepted contract schedule had insufficient detail	The civils schedule was not fully integrated, the scheduler did not spend enough time on site and HZI did not have control, the updates were done off site for the monthly meetings, no as built schedule was maintained	The civil and mechanical schedules were not aligned, HZI did not have a scheduler on site full time and the schedule became unmanageable and did not reflect what was happening on site	More resources dedicated to "site" planning from an early stage. Civils works invariably end up in a claims situation and an as built schedule or cause and effect schedule is key information. Reduces the need for costly claims experts to retrospectively do an as built schedule	
Schedule	deliveries should come in the sequence of construction works	several deliveries were delivered late despite delays in construction	deliveries not adjusted to construction plan	construction department shall give input in schedule, when which deliveries are needed	
Schedule	HZI shall plan and coordinate works on site overall	HZI had almost at no point of the project a reliable schedule	no construction schedule available; unpredictability of contractors performance made it difficult to plan and coordinate	construction schedule must be maintained in all phases of the project; contractual positions with contractors must be maintained	
Interfaces	Concrete Works to be finished before any M&E Installation	Ash Bunker not ready, Feed Hopper Slap not ready, M&E Installation needed new sequence (Steel, Boiler, Equipment), every contractor claimed hindrances	Differences due to new situation as contracted, Happened because of accident & too slow civil progress	Earlier discussions with civil to understand their needs. Understand the erection sequence of M&E contractors	
Schedule	Have a level 3 schedule available for Project execution	Schedule concept too complicated	"-NEC3 contract requirements needed a schedule which was not consistent with Site requirements
-dual schedules resulted
-Site schedule could not be regularly followed up with emphasis on key issues"	"-One schedule only
-Simplify schedule and align from the outset with -Commissioning requirements. Need to be able to filter the schedule for high level and more detailed level
-key dates for regular reporting to be captured in a high level schedule"	
Schedule	Have a level 3 schedule ready for Project execution	Contractor schedules not readily usable to penalise performance	"-Contract stage schedule detail inadequate
-project delays caused access dates to move and the original construction concept to change (e.g. partial access only to the boiler house)
-Contractors submitted inadequate and unrealistic resource plans at tender stage"	"-revise contractual completion dates as early as possible when delays are identified
-tender stage schedule and resourcing detail review"	
Schedule	Have a level 3 schedule ready for Project execution	Schedule provisions for Risk not adequate or clearly defined. Caused schedule updates to lose credibility. (e.g. delays moved heavy erection into winter period, poor weather, shorter days)	-Schedule or documents did not clearly assess potential weather impact, delay impact, NAECI, public holidays and Christmas period working, assembly time and dmeb time for cranes etc.	Assess and quantify where possible	
Programme Management	HZI programme would be approved early in the project	FMFEL expectations were not met and programme was not approved for a protracted period of time	HZI failed to provide an acceptable programme for many months, mostly due to HZI own issues but later there was some over critical comments and expectations from FMFEL	Template, (not in words but in a programme format), to be part of the contract so that all parties clearly understand what is to be provided. 	There is greater alignment between FMFEL and HZI now on programme issues which should be captured within any new contract
Programme	Detailed P6 programme to support the project and help management. Also key contractual document for assessing claims against. 	The programme proved more of a hindrance that a help in many cases and allowed teams to do different things and to cloud the real issues on site. Furthermore it cost a significant sum of money, consumed a lot of energy and produced limited benefit. The difficulty using it also meant that many members of the team had their own programmes which in turn added to the problems.	Over complicated programme, managed by different people with conflicting ideas. The complexity also meant that when the plan changed it was too complicated to update. The people on the project were also unable to easily give inputs or get views. They therefore saw little benefit from the programme and therefore developed their own. 	Simplify the P6 programme. Possibly use the WBS to control access and give engineers access to the programme. TPMs able to modify their WBS in sandbox mode to allow analysis of impacts. Electronic updates (believe this is already the case) rather than PDF hand amended updates. All TPMs and site staff to receive P6 training and be given access to the software.	
Scheduling	According Contract the Project Time Schedule has to be ready 3 month after NTP	The time schedule was rejected several times, first acceptance 10 month after NTP	There was no master time schedule (MTS) available which has fulfilled the contractual obligation	Now we have a standard MTS available and we can prepare a Project Time Schedule based on this in 2 month. During proposal phase we clearly define now what we contractually doing and what not for scheduling.	
Scheduling	Delays during engineering and purchasing phase.	The dates in the time schedule were shifted every month by the team members 	The project team members has not committed the time schedule and made your own time schedule 	We have introduced a work instruction “Generation and update of the Project Time Schedule (PTS)” in our PM System. The Project team members has to check/release the PTS. The Project team has weekly or at least bi-weekly a short meeting about the status of the PTS. There is also special meeting point "Scheduling Corner " to held this meetings.	Implemented
Scheduling	Contractually we had to deliver a monthly report with schedule and progress curves 	Reporting was delayed and not  completed for all activities.	The reporting was done manually on PDF's report and exchanged with emails 	The monthly updating is now generated by the Project team members directly in Primavera through a web interface.	Implemented
"Scheduling

NEW"	TPM's  shall check and release their part of the schedule as they are responsible for their scope. 	Some of the TPM's have to much scope of work to be handled. Therefore they are not able to manage this amount of work. The schedule was not checked correctly and the update was made on a superficial quality.	The assigned scope for individuals of the TPM's was to huge. The quality of work was reduced and provided to late. 	Split the amount of work to more persons or change the scope of work to more involved team members. 	The Scope of TPM CSP is now split in three functions
"Scheduling

NEW"	The contract requested to provide to the client a xre file from the source base of the planning SW, Primavera. Further he requested to use his WBS and we should apply the BOQ's with costs into our schedule	"- WBS was aligned to the client requirements. -> The client could not get his results out of it.
- The xer File was send to the client in full extend -> The programme was rejected repeatedly as all details where visible.
- BOQ's could HZI not provide as this is not available in the company. "	"- Acceptance of the contract without checking if HZI is able to manage such issues 
- Client was demanding to many issues that normally will not be accepted."	During the tender phase, this issues shall be clarified with the executing organisation. 	
"Scheduling 

NEW"	Interface with the civil contractor shall be clarified during the tender phase. 	The interface between HZI and the civil contractor was not discussed during the tender phase. Therefore the civil contractor did not had a clear guidance, when the interfaces have been due and what we did expect. We also did not  strongly pushed for it. 	"The both schedules did not had the aligned dates for the same tasks. 
The HZI schedule was not respected form the TPM civil "	Clarification of the interface, shall be made early in the start up of the project and the involved members have to participate. It cannot be that the civil contractor is dealing only with the TPM civil without considering the overall project time schedule	
construction schedule	Integrated civil construction schedule should have been available at the beginning of the project.	"Poor contractual schedule due to:
- undoable durations,
- wrong sequencing,
- incorrect logic,"	Poor scheduling provided	A jointly developed HZI/SISK constructions schedule shall be developed at the early stage of the project considering all schedule impact experience	
Sub Contractors	HZI to employ experienced competent contractors with previous experience on energy from waste plants	HZI procured several contractors who were inexperienced and did not fully understand the scope of works as a result the works took longer with substantial amount of reworking (example WSC piping & BoP/duct installation)	HZI did not carryout a detailed due diligence on the sub contractors and probably went for the cheapest price	Employ sub contractors who are experienced in the scope of work and proven track record. Cheapest is invariably not the best and with substantial LD's time is of the essence!	
Scaffolding	HZI nominate 1 scaffold contractor for the site and coordinate the works to ensure costs are apportioned accordingly to sub contractors and scaffolds are removed in a timely manner to allow other works to progress	The way the scaffold contract was procured gives the process contractor no incentive to dismantle scaffolds as there is no weekly hire charge, the contractors are charged to erect and dismantle, the scaffolds are left insitu as long as possible obstructing other trades 	Procurement of scaffold and payment terms is not conducive to limiting the use of scaffold	Amend the hire charges to cover erect, dismantle and weekly hire charge to encourage the contractors to remove the scaffolds as soon as is reasonably practicable	
Interfaces	Process steel structure and building steel structure are separate in order to avoid interfaces	this concept is not strictly followed and several piping systems and some parts of the process steel had to wait for the building steel	concept not strictly followed	combine building steel and process steel to one steel structure	
Interfaces	Process steel structure and building steel structure are separate in order to avoid interfaces	delay in building steel allows only at a late state to close the building	delay in building steel	combine building steel and process steel to one steel structure, this allows installation of cladding in parallel to steel erection	
Sub Contractors	Contractors must hold the required qualifications	several contractors were missing company qualifications and quality qualifications at the beginning of the work	availability of qualifications not checked prior to contracting / mobilization	companies must be audited prior to contract award; specific qualifications must be provided prior to site mobilization	
Sub Contractors	Competent Contractors. The M&E erection works were planned to sub-contract to a new, competent mechanical contractor	Ainscough was not capable for the works	AVL should have not been suggested for this work by Procurement, Audit was not carried out in a way that it was realized that AVL is not a suitable contractor, during contract negotiation not sufficient documents were available to discuss the scope in detail, contract was signed although welding requirements were not in place but only promised	better selection by procurement, better audits on companies, better tender documentation	
Sub Contractors	Experienced NAECI-experienced sub-contractors	"Underperforming Contractors
"	"- Contractors in financial difficulties. Underestimate scope 
- Lack of experience and suitable resources
- NAECI impact on cost and productivity "	"- Detailed pre-contract audits or use proven contractors
- Realistic contract schedule and manpower plan. 
- Adequate own management, supervision and quality resources
- Site Authorisation of Invoices/progress
"	
Sub Contractors	Appoint sub-contractors as required in the schedule	Contracts start under pressure (e.g. Structural Steel, WSC piping etc.)	"- late contract placement
- manufacturing in multiple facilities. Difficult to trace status and material deliveries"	"- Placement of critical contracts
- Contractor to provide detailed reporting with  material list and actual deliveries to site. "	
Sub Contractors	Have one scaffold contractor on site	"Concept for Scaffolding Contract can be improved. Cost overruns and scaffolding remain in place for too long. 
"	"- Contractors not incentivised to remove scaffold or to encourage shared cost use by others
- Scaffolding cost overruns only settled at end of contract"	"- Scaffolding framework contract only by HZI.
- Single contract for the site
- Contractors deal with Scaffolding Co directly. Include a scaffolding hire component in price"	
Sub Contractors	Local NAECI-experienced insulation contractor	Concept for Insulation Contracts can be improved. Contract performance is poor. 	- Insulation contractor not incentivised to perform	"- Progress based payment structure
- Schedule which can be penalised"	
HV Cable route	Sleeves and manholes installed as per cable contractors advice	Contractor changed requirement. Excavation needed	Contractor inexperienced	Use expert contractors	All this items have to be engineered in detail based on  our Standards Substation drawings that we have now
Manufacturing of the grate riddling system	HZI placed the order to a new and small company near the plant	Too less capacity in the workshop and therefor the delivery time was too late	Wrong purchasing decision	Cooperation with our proven suppliers / partners	
Manufacturing	DD has got all WPS	Part of the WPS was not valid or wrong	The regulations changed in the last years and neither DD nor NoBo realised this fact	HZI checks all relevant certificates very strictly before placing the order	
Design	Mapress connections on air and water piping were supposed to safe construction time	Other trades have impacted the installation so rework was necessary. Increased construction time.	Other trades have impacted the installation so rework was necessary	Use of welded connections.	
Corrosion protection steel structure	Steel structure was ordered with hot dip galvanised corrosion protection	Quality of the hot dip galvanising was not satisfied and also not good for repair actions	Only one galvanising company were used	Steel structure has to be painted instead of hot dip galvanised. HZI has more experience with painted steel structure. It is also easier for repair actions.	
"Procurement
Selection of UK / Local Subcontractors"	"Where ever possible, UK / Local subcontractors were selected.
HZI expectation was that these new UK-suppliers would carry the execution of the works in a similar way as other contractors (non UK) did for HZI on previous projects."	The performance of these subs in terms of efficiency, quality and collaboration was far less than expected with a significant impact on costs and delays for the project.	"Cultural differences as well as the fact that these new Subs did  have no experience of HZI (no previous involvement in HZI projects) and of this type of activities was not properly taken into consideration.
Inadequate specifications and supervision by using the same approach as when using known Subcontractors
Appropriate accreditation / certification were not obtain in time."	"Avoid contractual obligation for involvement of UK / Local subs and use unknown UK / local only for minor lots.
Improve specifications, directives, communication and supervision.
More HZI involvement in coordination with others."	
Quality	ITP's for all works/equipment	Civil Works manufacturing Inspections not done too the same standard as M&E. (e.g. some equipment released to site without inspections or approval, some without ITP etc.)	Civil contract provisions for quality 	Review	
Quality	ITP's and documentation scheduled	Offsite inspections raised questions when on site preparation for Final inspections and pressure tests started (e.g. compliance during manufacturing with weld inspection requirements)	"-pressure part contracts not required to submit manufacturing Docs until late stage 
"	"-Standardize ITPs to end
-Review Contract M/F Quality Doc timing and submission earlier
"	
Quality	Sub-contractors to supply ITP's and welder qualification	Welding inspection. Concerns raised about welding quality at several stages	"-pressure on schedule
-Inspection resources"	At F/B employed additional welding inspection resources	
Quality	QA-documentation available for MEC's	Pressure on Documentation preparation for pressure tests and FIS	-Not contractual for Contractors to submit Docs "Baubegleitend". 	Had successes but sort out contractually	
Quality documentation	According to requirements	To date still missing or rejected Workshop Quality documentation. Equipment concerned will not get MEC release from FMFEL	"Insufficient HZI involvement to check and force subs to deliver documentation on time
Internal split of responsibilities
Contractual obligation for Subs not defined precisely enough in the T&Cs of purchase"	"Improve T&Cs
Clearly define internal process and responsibilities.
Improve active monitoring"	
Customer	Hand over of site by customer to HZI	Not meeting all their Site preparation obligations (e.g. buried cables)	NEC contract structure misused. 	-Earlier HZI response and CE claims	
NEC3 Contract	NEC3 is supposed to promote a less adversarial approach, decreasing the chance of time consuming and costly disputes	There was an adversarial approach between the parties with many lengthy discussions	"a) The parties did not start out with the intention to haver a collaborative approach,
b) The many Z Clauses removed many of the aspects which promote fairness and therefore contributed to point a)
c) Most TQs from HZI we responded to late, did not answer the query or instead asked a different question - items took far too long to be resolved"	"a) closer working and collaboration between the two commercial teams and clearly understand the process and agreed information required in the management of commercial issues (e.g. compensation events)
b) Challenge and remove unnecessary Z clauses,  restoration of clauses either entirely or back to the original wording (including; 11.2, 14.1, 19.1, 21.2, 21.4, 27.3, 43.1, 60, 60.1(19), 60.2, 60.3, 61.3, 63.4, 80 and others to restore balance)
c) agree on a reasonable time period for reply which shall have, as far as is reasonably practicable, an appropriate response."	
Commercial	There should have been a clear understanding within the Contract as to scope of works.	In some areas, the scope of works was not clear and led to unnecessary disagreement.	Shortage of specific detail in the Contract. Potentially either not sufficient time spent on Contract "agreement" or late introduction of changes not properly detailed.	Spend more time, prior to Contract close, with a dedicated team from both sides scheduling out the scope of works. (Keep it simple)	Improves contract efficiency and time saving, less contentious.
Commercial	Compensation Events, Changes to the "Scope of Works" should have been evaluated using schedule of rates.	Compensation Events etc., were priced using third party quotation that were interrogated by FMFEL as the schedule of rates was limited.	The Contract Schedule of Rates were inadequate for pricing alterations, variations etc.,	Spend more time, prior to Contract close with a dedicated team from both sides producing a more comprehensive agreed schedule of rates.	Improves contract efficiency and time saving, less contentious.
Commercial	The Terms and Conditions of Contract were intended to administer the Contract.	The Terms and Conditions of Contract, although based on NEC3 were too adapted/changed and overly complex.	This issue was potentially caused by both parties trying to cover all aspects of works confusing the original intentions.	If NEC 3 is used "next time" leave it as much as possible in its original format cover changes with attached schedules, as in 1 and 2 above.	Improves contract efficiency and time saving, less contentious.
Commercial	All communication between Contractor and FMFEL were by way of "Notices."	There were several different types of notices with different numerical sequencing.	The system operated as planned by HZI suggests that this could be improved.	All notices, irrespective of subject are of a common numerical sequence, say 1 to 500, with the subject of the communication being covered in the Title, i.e., request for quotation, general notice, compensation event, change to the works information etc.	Improves contract efficiency and time saving. Easier to follow sequence of events.
Commercial	Direct and regular communication between respective commercial representatives.	Direct and regular communication between respective commercial representatives.	There was no difference to what was planned, by HZI believe that there could be benefits to expand the scope.	The improvement could be that there could be more benefit if there was some targets for "Value Engineering" targets with proportionally shared commercial advantages, some identified by, but all financially evaluated by a joint commercial team.	Improve contract "value for money" develop joint cooperation, more joint project "taskforce" style cooperation less "them and us."
Commercial & Financial	The Contract payment schedule was based on "Milestones."	Due to several reasons, mitigation, changes in sequencing, the Milestones became progressively less meaningful and were subject to agreed changes.	The changes happened because of the common acceptance of the changing meaningfulness of the milestones.	Take more time in allocating the milestones to "works completed" and substantially increase the number of milestones. Improve the description of each of the milestones.	Improve project cash-flow, hence reducing potential cost as financing costs reduced.
"Contractual
Design acceptance - NEC Clause 21.2
""The contractor submit the particulars of his design to the PM for acceptance. The contractor does not proceed with the relevant work until the project manager has accepted his design"""	Nothing. 	"During design phase HZI was made aware of this obligation by FMFEL (some equipment already being fabricated)
HZI submit basic packages (Specification, calculation, PID, arrangement drawing)
PM refuse to accept because requirements from Annex2 not fulfilled
HZI unable to comply 
HZI / FMFEL agrees for compromise
Issue still open
Until now this had not impacted the progress but risk exist until formally closed (Impact on taking over?)

"	HZI team overlooked this requirement and hence did not consider	"For NEC contracts clear reasonable  definition of ""particulars of the design"" to be included in the contract.
In addition see 3 above"	
"Contractual
Employer technical specification
(Ambiguities Inconsistencies / Technical Queries)
"	Minor clarification were expected	"At project start HZI issued 125 AIIs most of them were of the nature of TQ) that were followed up and closed leading to several changes of the work information.
In addition, to date HZI have issued 400 TQs FMFEL 320.
"	Not enough effort during the 1 month period dedicated to AIIs clarification	"Include all accepted AIIs in next contract
Improve design effort at project start"	
Environmental Permit CEMS	CEMS deinstalled during refractory drying / boiler blow out	CEMS has to be installed and fully in operation. Risk that CEMS probes are getting damaged due to not normal operation	Issue not sufficiently be considered during tender and execution phase	Contractor to propose a way forward arly in the project to be discussed and agreed with the client and EA	
NAECI site	Non NAECI is HZI preferred setup	Delays, inefficiencies, strikes, additional costs	Challenging programmes and NAECI site is hardly achievable	Non NAECI site or extended schedule	
RDD	Reviewable Design Data to be brought in line with HZI standard RDD with respect to amount of documents and structure	Document amount and structur did never fit with the amount and structur of HZI organisation	Different approaches from consultant and contracor	Use HZI standard RDD	
Approval procedure	Get the approvals in time HZI allows to stick on schedule with approved documents	In order to meet the schedule HZI had to progress without approvals. Contact on customer side was always an "organisation", never a person with a name.	Approvals to late, withheld on formality reasons or HZI input to late and/or not accurate enough. Different company philosophies are not understood by the parties. High level meetings only. No meetings on an engineering level.	Regular meetings face-to-face, involving engineers from involved parties, helps to sort out misunderstandings.	
Erection supervisor	One erection supervisor for FGT	In the course of the erection, the concept was changed to horizontal erection approach. FGT overview got lost. Open items and Snag are not rectified for ages.	Qualification FGT supervisor not sufficient. Left company during erection. Concept change on that occasion.	Also with horizonal approach, sufficiently qualified staff with some product knowledge and understanding must be available on site	
Workshop Insulation	Defined concept workshop insulation / Transport / storage on site / insulation on site / lift in / final insulation in order to reduce site hours on a NAECI site	Pre-assembly area was not ready, storage of filter chambers somewhere and somehow, laydown time was much to long, insulation not weather protected and wet, completion insulation on site 10 times more expensive than planned, completion still not achieved, insulation contractor not qualified...	Communication, involvement PCM not sufficient, availability of PCM no given, no organisation on site, change to horizontal management no properly managed, …	Procedure in place to fix insulation concept until QGR 2.6, laydown area concept must be fixed and sticked on, Induction site staff in Zurich must be improved, PCM must be available at any time for the SU's in order to fix the milestone decisions, qualified insulation contractors	
Cooperation site-Engineering	Feedback from site not sufficient	e.g. routing compressed air pipes not according PID (0er parts are taken from L1part…); modifications necessary. Consequences of rerouting / clash with other systems are not taken into account	Assume, that contractors did not follow the documentation - "first come first serve" principle on site	Provide unambiguous erection documentation / management of subcontractors / scheduling on site	
Erection documentation	Erection documentation complete 6 weeks prior start erection	Erection documentation was not complete, not good enough in quality or not structured clear enough	We've always done it that way / standards not sufficiently developped / procedures & work instructions missing	All what we do right now with respect to erection instructions, GP's, PCM's, …	
Site Conditions	no surprises in the ground	the ground conditions were different than anticipated, dewatering and well concept had to be fundamentally changed, HZI civil subcontractor incurred considerable extra cost and significant delay was caused.	the ground conditions were different than anticipated from the soil investigation reports, dewatering tests were only done after contract signature. In some areas piling turned out to be necessary.	get better and more extensive site investigation report to avoid surprises	
Site Conditions	no surprises with water discharge	The bid / HZI price anticipated water discharge into the existing discharge point of Ferrybridge C power plant. This was changed later in the project to a limited discharge into Fryston Beck. This change caused delays to discharge of planning conditions, extra cost and delay in the execution.	Ferrybridge C power plant existing discharge could not cope with the additional discharge.	This issues should be investigated and clarified more thoroughly in the bid stage	
Site Conditions	the bid was based on getting extension of time in chase of delays caused in relation to archeology	HZI was prevented from working in the bunker area because of suspected archealogy.	The relevant authorities suspected potential archeology but nothing was found in the end. The EOT provisions were limited to actual discovery of fossils or antiquities	The risk allocation should be better defined in the Contract. Delay due to suspected fossils and antiquities should be included in the EOT definition.	
Contract	provision of programme in accordance with Contract	The Contract provided that level of ressources,  equipment and execution procedures should be incorporated into the programme.	This requirement proved too difficult and impractical to implement and did not seem to provide added value.	The contractual provisions as to what has to be demonstrated in the programme should be adjusted to a level which is both practical and acceptable to both parties.	
Contract	definition of Key Dates to align with intent and potential clauses in NEC	The Key Dates did not fit the concept of NEC, i.e. they included actions of FMFEL as opposed to describing only the conditions the Contractor has to achieve.	The definition / insertion of the Key Dates was done last minute on the day the Contract was signed.	Both parties should review what is needed and allow enough time to correctly define the Key Dates.	
Contract	no ambiguites, clear Contract, respective responsibilities clearly defined	several provisions were ambiguous or not clear, some turned out to be not practical, terminology in the specification did not always match the contractual definitions	a significant part of the contract (Z-Clauses) / specification was negotiated and amendments were drafted within the last two weeks before signature (some mere hours beforehand).	Remove ambiguities and allow more time to for drafting and review. Allow time for overall sanity check.	
